In the last video, we laid out the solution we're going to use to address this big IRL problem.
So if our code is running inside the browser, we're just going to let everything behave as it's currently
working.
We really only have to be concerned about the case in which we're trying to run some code inside this
next JS application, when we need to reach out to some other service and fetch some data.
So we eventually decided to go with option number one whenever we need to fetch some data while we are
doing some server side rendering, we need to somehow reach out to ingress engine X and allow ingress
engine X to root off this request.
The only issue was how do we actually make a request to ingress engine x?
We can access Ingress Engine X on our local machine in the words inside of our browser by navigating
to local host port 80.
That's how we get to Ingress Engine X.
If I were to open up my browser right now, but we're trying to make this request from a totally different
environment.
We're trying to make the request from inside of this next JS Pod or the client pod.
If we try to access local host inside this pod, then we're going to access local hosts inside the pod
or excuse me, inside the container itself.
That's what's happening right now, and that's what's resulting in the nasty air that we're currently
getting.
So we want to instead figure out how we can tell the pod to reach out directly to ingress engine.
So in short, what do we type right there?
What is our domain?
What do we have to type in to get this entire system routing requests over to ingress engine x?
So that's the big question that we're going to try to solve in this video.
Okay.
So I want to give you first a very quick reminder.
Whenever we have two pods that need to communicate with each other in a synchronous fashion, we can
do so by using those cluster IP services.
So, for example, if we wanted our client to reach out directly to that pod, we would write out the
name of the cluster IP service.
So it would be something like HTTP off CRV.
Now, unfortunately, this rule right here only works when these services.
Ah, referring or assuming when we're trying to access a service that is inside of the same namespace.
So what is the namespace?
Well, a namespace is something that exists in the world of Kubernetes.
All the different objects we create are created under a specific namespace.
You can think of a namespace as being like a sandbox of sorts.
We use namespaces for organizing different objects.
Right now, we've been working under a namespace called default.
So if we go back over to our terminal.
And do a little get namespace.
We'll print out all the different namespaces that currently exist inside of our Kubernetes cluster.
You'll see default is listed right there.
And again, that's where all the objects we have been creating get created.
There's another namespace called Ingress and Gen X, and that's where all of our Ingress Engine X related
stuff works.
Now, unfortunately, we cannot use this style of communication to reach out to a service that exists
inside of another namespace.
So in short, we really can't use this very short form right here to reach out to Ingress and Gen X
directly.
We cannot just put in something like ingress engine x dash CRV.
Unfortunately, the domain we have to type out is a little bit more complicated.
So let's take a look how we would get our client to communicate directly over to the Ingress Engine
X Service.
Yeah.
So if we want to do some cross namespace communication to a service created in a different namespace,
we're still going to type out a domain, but the domain is going to be a little bit more complicated,
the domain that we're going to type out.
Will be the name of service.
Then a dot.
Then the namespace.
Then SVC cluster local.
Let me give you a more practical example so we can really understand what's going on there.
The first thing we need to understand is what is the name of the namespace we are trying to reach into?
So in this case, the name is Ingress Engine X.
Then the second question is what is the name of the service inside there that we're trying to access?
Well, to figure out what that is, we need to list out all the services that exist inside that namespace.
Right now, when we type out cube, CTL gets services.
This is only listing services from the default namespace.
There are technically other services that exist in these other namespaces.
So if we want to figure out what services exist inside of ingress and generics, we have to customize
the Git Services Command and tell it to fetch services from inside of Ingress Engine X namespace.
So we would do that by writing CTL, get services, dash DN, and then the name of the namespace, which
in this case is Ingress Engine X.
So I'll run that.
And there's the name of our service.
That is the name of the service inside of this namespace that we are trying to reach out to.
It's simply ingress engine x.
So in total, to reach to this other namespace and access the ingress engine x service inside there
we would write out and let me.
Myself a little bit of space here so you can see us very easily.
We would write out http.
Slash slash the name of the service which is ingress dash and gen x, then a dot the the name of the
name space ingress and gen x and then SVC cluster local.
And that's it.
That's how we reach from our client across the namespace over to this other one and access the service
inside their.
So whenever we want to follow request option number one right here and somehow make a request over to
the current user service without having to worry about reaching over to all service directly, we would
make our request to.
I'll zoom in on this in just a moment.
Ingress and X.
Dot ingress and x svc cluster local.
And I will zoom in.
That's how we do it.
And we just need to make sure that we pass along the cookie as well.
All right.
So that's how we're going to communicate across namespaces now.
Very quickly, having to memorize this kind of syntax right here kind of gets nasty really quickly.
So there actually is a solution to this that will allow us to make a very similar looking request to
this one right here.
So a very simple kind of just ingress dash, engine X dash.
XB If we wanted to be able to make a request to something like this, we can create something that is
called an external name service.
So an external name service essentially just re maps the domain of a request.
We can set up a external name service that will map requests from, say, ingress dash engine x dash
CRV to this more complicated domain, like the one you see right there.
So if we did something like this, we would not have to memorize this crazy syntax.
We would just follow that kind of short form that we are somewhat already used to.
This is not at all necessary.
It's just a nice to have thing.
It's just something that makes it a little bit easier to remember.
Hey, here's the URL, or here's a very short URL that I can make my request to.
We are not going to create the external name service just because as you come back and reference this
code in the future, this really is a pretty big layer of indirection.
And I just do not want you to have to remember that.
Oh yeah, we created that external name service that's going to map this thing off.
That's just an extra thing to have to remember in the future.
So we are not going to go down this route.
But again, it is an option.
It is something you could do if you did not want to memorize that longer URL.
Huh?
All right.
As I've said many times, you know, the stuff is pretty crazy.
That's why microservices are hard.
That's why you get paid the big bucks once you start to learn this stuff.
So now that we've got a good idea, or at least some idea of what's going on here, I think that's pretty
much it for the lecture in the theory.
So we're going to start to implement all this stuff in the next video.